# Data Science Final Project

This project looks at tweets using a specified hashtag that was searched for.  From there some descriptive statistics were done to understand the data and then I began to answer some questions I had by using the data

# Queries Looked At
1. Pray for Mizzou 
2. Mizzou (for the research question and comparison to Pray For Mizzou)

#Results With Pray For Mizzou
1. The main event that affected the trends was the individual reactions to the online threats last semester (mainly on Yik Yak) against black students to the point where many people of color did not feel comfortable coming to campus the next day.  For the words KKK, white, black, and student they spiked the day of the threats and then quickly died down within 2 days.  World on the other hand has very little activity when the other 4 do, yet spikes 2 days later which corresponds with the spikes in the hashtags such as #PrayForParis and #PrayForMexico (among numerous others)
2. This data set is tied to a specific event (the online threats from last semester) and so has a ton of activity for the first two days before (as all social media trends do) dying out and having very little to no activity for the rest of the collection.  This data has similar spikes at the beginning as ConcernedStudents1950 since the two events are related.  However ConcernedStudents1950 continues to have more mentions than PrayForMizzou does after the first few days.  It was interesting to note that when tweeting #PrayForMizzou people also included the various international events that were occurring such as #PrayForParis and #PrayForBeirut (among others).  

# Results For Research Question
1. Not surprisingly #BlackLivesMatter, #PrayForMizzou, and #ConcernedStudent1950 all follow the same pattern (for this data set) where they are talked about a lot at the beginning and then within 3-4 days are down to very little to no activity.  Oddly, as those hashtags were decreasing in activity, #Hillary2016 and #LibCrib were increasing.  After some research it seems that #UniteBlue and #LibCrib are  hashtags and accounts that are used to talk about liberal policies and people in government while critiquing republican policies.  After looking into these hashtags, they are not hashtags that would have been used by students on campus, which means that a large part of this data is people talking about Mizzou without attending the school or being in the area.  It is worth noting that those hashtags, along with #Hillary2016, all followed the same pattern of activity and didn’t rise to a noticeable amount of tweets until after the other hashtags had subsided.  
2. #PrayForMizzou, #BlackLivesMatter, and #ConcernedStudent1950 all follow the trend of how media portrayed what occurred on campus last semester.  One issue with the dataset is that the tweets are not collected prior to November 11th which for most datasets is alright however since this one is event driven (by a single event that only occurred once) this dataset is missing the build up and all previous mentions relating to the event, particularly with #BlackLivesMatter and #ConcernedStudent1950.  This made the analysis a bit harder since it is harder to see the spike in tweets, outside of the fact that it occurred the first day of the collection.  
3. I had initially wanted to do a sentiment analysis on the #PrayForMizzou data set however I ran into some issues.  I have the script made (scripts/Sentiment.ipynb) however after running for 6 hours and having no output I had to shutdown the kernel.   I had attempted to modify the script to make it more efficient but to no avail.  The script is still in the repo so that it can be seen but it is something that I will have to experiment with more over the summer due to not having enough time this week.   My original plan was that once I had the sentiment values for all tweets I could start tracking the sentiment over time both in a general sense, separated by specific hashtags, and separated by user mentions to see if any trends exist.   


